>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And I
think many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
All of us at some
time in our life
have tried to ask ourselves
that question, who are we?
Where did we come from?
Our guest on "Beyond
Belief," Gregg Braden.
Gregg is an author, a
researcher, and an explorer.
One of his latest
works, of course,
called "Deep Truth," trying to
find out just where in the heck
we came from and what
we're doing here.
>>GREGG BRADEN: I can't think
of a more important question
to answer, George.
You know, the key to the way
that we solve our problems
and the way we think of
ourselves in the world-- it's
all based in the way that
we have been led to believe,
what our relationship is
to ourselves, to our body,
to the world around us, to
our past, to our future.
And what's so very
fascinating to me
is that in the
modern world, we've
been steeped in a story,
a scientific story.
It's about 300 years old.
We say science began
about 300 years ago.
It's a story of separation.
And that story of
separation is the way
that we have been taught
to think of ourselves
and see the world around
us and solve our problems.
If we want to see
the consequence
of doing precisely
that, it's the world
that we have right now.
Some things are certainly
working better than others.
So what science has tried to
do is what our ancestors have
done for thousands of years.
There are a series
of questions are
called the perennial
questions of life.
And our ancestors
have always believed
if they could answer these
fundamental questions,
that in answering each of them
individually, collectively,
we would have an answer--
>>NOORY: Makes sense.
>>BRADEN: --to help us--
to help us know who we are.
So the six questions essentially
in one variation or another,
they begin at the very bottom
of an inverted pyramid.
We can think of it that way.
And the first question is
the most fundamental of all.
Where do we come from?
What is the origin of life?
The second question is, what
is the origin of human life?
Because there's a lot of
evidence suggesting that
it may not come from where
the other life has come from.
The third question is, what is
our relationship to our bodies?
Are we separate and powerless
when it comes to our bodies
or are we somehow
deeply connected
in ways that science is only
beginning to understand?
The next question is,
what is our relationship
to the world beyond our bodies?
Are we deeply connected to
the world that surrounds us,
or are we separate and
independent from that world?
The next question
after that is, what is
our relationship to the past?
And we have been led to
believe-- the history books
today, our young
people in school,
are taught that
civilization, for example,
is about 5,000 years old.
It began 5,000,
5,5000 years ago.
And that there's
been a progression,
a linear progression, that's
happened one time that
culminates with us
and the sophistication
that we have today.
That is the story
that we're being told.
And the last question
is, how do we
go about solving our problems
when times get tough?
When we're up against
the wall, do we
cooperate or do we compete?
Well, for 300 years we say
that science-- modern science
is born around the
time of Isaac Newton
when they formalized the laws
of physics about 300 years ago.
We have been led to believe that
the answer to those questions,
if our viewers can
visualize on the side
of this inverted
pyramid, the origin,
where do we come from--
we've been taught that we're
completely random and
the origin of life,
the origin of human life we're
taught, is completely random.
We're taught that we are
separate from our bodies.
separate from the world
beyond our bodies.
We're taught that civilization
is a one time deal.
It's linear.
It's happened once
and that we're
the pinnacle of sophistication.
And we're taught
that nature is based
upon this model of
competition and conflict.
That story of separation
has led to the world
that we have today.
So we have to say it
has worked well enough,
George, to get us
to where we are.
The problem is, the best science
of the 21st century-- and this
is peer reviewed science.
So this is the theory,
hypothesis, speculation.
Peer reviewed science
has now overturned
every one of those
statements that I just made.
And we now know that the story,
our story, our relationship
to the world, is
a story based not
upon separation, but on
connection and cooperation.
We know that the physical
evidence does not
support that the origin of
life is completely random.
The DNA evidence doesn't support
that the origin of human life
is--
>>NOORY: Does that
toss out Darwin?
Right out the window?
>>BRADEN: I'm going to talk
about Darwin in just a minute.
Because that's a very important
part of what we're doing here.
Doesn't toss it out, but it
means it's a special case.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BRADEN: When it comes to our
relationship to our bodies,
our own science
now is telling us
thoughts, feelings,
emotions, beliefs
create precise chemistry
within the brain that match
each of those experiences.
And when we know how to
create those experiences,
we literally have our
own medicine chest
in our brain to create the
chemicals in our bodies.
So we're not separate
from our bodies.
The world around our
bodies, our quantum physics
now is telling us that we are
deeply connected to ourselves,
to one another, to
our world in ways
that our ancestors
understood in their time
and we're only beginning
to understand in ours.
When it comes to civilization,
the best science of our time--
and I've had the opportunity
to physically document some
of the archaeological sites
now that are pushing the date
of advanced technological
civilization--
>>NOORY: Way back.
>>BRADEN: Back over
twice, almost three times
what we're being taught,
what our young people are
being taught, in schools today.
We're being taught that,
again, 5,000, 5,500
years with ancient Sumeria.
We're now looking at
ice age civilizations--
technological ice
age civilizations.
>>NOORY: Well, you know, our
dear friend Michael Cremo--
>>BRADEN: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Long time believes that
mankind, intelligent mankind,
goes back millions
of years in that we
might have obliterated ourselves
and started over again.
And this process just
goes on and on and on.
>>BRADEN: The data
now is supporting
some of these theories.
Now, it's a little
slow in catching up.
And I just want to say the last
one, when we talk about nature,
the best science
of the 21st century
is now telling us that nature is
based in a model of cooperation
and what biologists
call mutual aid.
And we all know that violent
competition and conflict
happens and they
don't deny that.
But those are responses
to specific circumstances.
It's not the general
law of nature.
So now when we look at
this pyramid of these six
perennial questions, who are we?
We now are being shown
through peer reviewed
science a story of
cooperation and connection
rather than the
separation of the past.
And people say to me all the
time, they say, OK, Greg.
We got it.
Maybe Darwin wasn't right 100%.
Maybe the archaeologists
weren't 100% right.
What difference does it
make, is what they say.
It's a good question.
And the answer to that is
that we think of ourselves
through a lens.
We define ourselves--
consciously, subconsciously--
through a lens of perceptions.
Science helps us with
those perceptions.
Our families, our
communities, our religions,
culture all help with
those perceptions.
And what's happening
now, George, it's
a silent revolution.
But it's like an
earthquake that is rocking
the foundations of
everything that we've
been taught about us and our
relationship to the world.
The story just changed
from a story of separation
to a story of connection
and cooperation.
So the way we go about
solving our problems,
and I think our
listeners all know
that we've got some big
problems to solve right now--
>>NOORY: Huge.
>>BRADEN: The old solutions
don't seem to be working.
And one of the reasons may be
because those old solutions are
based on what are
called false assumptions
of an obsolete science.
I'm a scientist.
I was trained as a scientist.
I think science is good.
In some respects, I think we've
asked too much of science.
Because all science can
do is give us the facts.
Science can give us information.
But it's human
experience that brings
the wisdom that tells us how we
apply those facts to our lives.
>>NOORY: See, I don't think
science tells you the how.
>>BRADEN: No, it can't.
>>NOORY: Or the why.
>>BRADEN: No, it could
tell you the nuts and bolts
of how things fit together.
So, for example, science is
telling us quantum physics,
saying everything is connected.
Scientists are saying,
OK, we're connected.
Now what?
Does that mean?
>>NOORY: We're connected.
>>BRADEN: How--
>>NOORY: This happened.
But we don't know why.
>>BRADEN: You know, there really
is very little controversy
as to the connection itself.
The controversy now is coming
to what extent are we connected.
How deep does that
connection go?
How much of a role do
we play consciously
in applying that
connection in our lives?
So what's happening right
now, there's-- this is
so interesting to me-- is that
peer reviewed science now has
overturned 300
years of thinking.
>>NOORY: Just like that.
>>BRADEN: And answering
the way that we think
of ourselves on the one hand.
On the other hand,
there is a-- I'm
going to say there's a
reluctance, in many cases
a flat out resistance to
sharing this in the mainstream.
So I'm thrilled to be
here with you today.
In the mainstream,
mainstream media,
mainstream documentaries,
mainstream classrooms,
mainstream textbooks, we are
now teaching our young people
the very principles of false
assumptions of science,
asking them to
solve the problems
that we've created through
the same thinking that
created the problems.
It doesn't make
any sense at all.
>>NOORY: How much
of a battle is there
between intelligent
design and Darwinism?
>>BRADEN: There's a huge battle
between intelligent design
and Darwinism.
And I think this is one
of the places science
is designed to serve us.
And in its purest
form, it can do that.
Science has been hijacked
in the modern world
through money, power,
ego, corporations.
I know you've talked about
that in many of your programs.
So Darwinism is
a perfect example
of where we're seeing this.
Darwin put forth
a theory in 1859.
And he said very
clearly-- I have
one of the original copies of
his text-- the original title,
"The Origin of Species by Means
of Natural Selection." that's
the title most of our
listeners know that book by.
>>NOORY: That's
what we know, yeah.
>>BRADEN: OK.
That is not the full title.
The rest of the title was
relegated to the inside pages
early in the 20th century.
>>NOORY: Who would know that?
>>BRADEN: Well, the
scholars know it very well.
Because the rest of the title,
"The Origin of Species by Means
of Natural Selection."
and then it has the word,
"Or the Preservation of
Favored Races in the Struggle
For Life."
That's the rest of the title.
And that gives us a
very, very different feel
for Darwin's work.
And that tells us two
things about Darwin.
First, it tells us
he believed there
were favored races, number one.
Number two, he believed
life is a struggle.
So every observation that
he made that he wrote about
that we're now teaching
in our textbooks,
he made those through his
preconceived ideas of struggle.
He saw the struggle everywhere.
>>NOORY: Was he a
believer in God?
>>BRADEN: I think he
believed in a higher power.
But he specifically said up
until 1859, those big questions
that I've just
shared, they were all
answered by the church and
religious organizations.
And he did his very best.
I think he was a good scientist.
He did his best to
take the first step
to move us away from religion
when we go about answering
those questions.
>>NOORY: 155 years ago.
>>BRADEN: I think it
was a good scientist.
However, and I just
want to be really clear.
People ask me this all the time.
I don't agree with what he did.
Where I think
Darwin went wrong is
that he made a generalization.
He believed that
when he saw nature
in one place in one moment in
time in one part of the world,
what he saw happening there
represented a rule that applies
to all nature everywhere
all over the world
and beyond, including us.
>>NOORY: And he didn't have
our kind of tools that we have.
>>BRADEN: He didn't.
>>NOORY: I wonder how
his thought pattern would
be if he were around today.
>>BRADEN: Well,
Darwin was the first.
And I show this in the books.
He said, I am offering a
theory that will move us away
from religion.
And he said, this is
only the first step.
It was not meant
to last forever.
And he said he was willing
for his theory to fall.
He said, when my theory
falls, the discovery that
breaks my theory
becomes the new theory.
So he was willing for
his theories to fall.
The academia of today,
the academic institutions,
are the ones that are refusing
to allow his theories to fall.
For example, he believed life
began with a single organism
and evolved slowly over
long periods of time.
That was his original theory.
And we've talked
about this before.
So he believes that there
would be fossil evidence that
would support that.
So what science
did 1859, they were
so willing to embrace his ideas,
there wasn't a lot of scrutiny,
a lot of critique,
a lot of criticism.
They embrace the ides.
They developed a model.
And what is happening
is that today,
anthropologists today-- and
I have friends in the field.
And we have these
conversations all the time
in the universities.
>>NOORY: Are they
battles or conversations?
>>BRADEN: Well, they're
conversations between us.
They're battles that
they're fighting
within the institutions.
Because what the
thinking is, they're
looking for fossil evidence to
fit into a preconceived model
of this evolutionary
idea rather than allowing
the fossil evidence to tell
the story that it's actually
telling.
And what the story is telling
is that evolution is a fact.
And as a geologist, I
could tell you that.
I've seen it in
the fossil record.
It breaks down when
it comes to humans,
the evolutionary theory.
We appeared in these bodies--
>>NOORY: We're just, like,
something totally separate.
>>BRADEN: We showed up on
Earth about 200,000 years ago,
George.
And if you were to take
a skeleton of one of us
200,000 years ago and if
it were in another chair
here next to us, except the
legs were little thicker,
and they think that maybe
because we ran more or walked
more back then.
>>NOORY: Sure, we
didn't have cars.
>>BRADEN: You can't
tell them from us.
Our cranial size is the same.
The cranial capacity
is the same.
The body proportions
are the same.
We haven't changed
in 200,000 years.
And that's not Darwin's
idea of evolution.
So I don't know--
>>NOORY: Is there a but here?
>>BRADEN: I don't want to get
sidetracked on that right now.
Because what we're
doing, and this
is one example, is that we're
refusing to allow the evidence
to tell the story.
We're trying to
force the evidence.
Not you and me,
not our listeners,
but academia in
general trying to force
the evidence into a story
that the data simply
doesn't support.
>>NOORY: What story,
what conclusion
are they trying to reach?
>>BRADEN: That we have
evolved from lesser
forms, more primitive forms.
>>NOORY: Little organisms
along that chain.
>>BRADEN: Perfect
example-- there was-- 1987,
there's an amazing discovery
northern Europe in a cave.
Underground, they found the
body of a baby Neanderthal girl.
When I'm in Germany, they
call it "Neandertal."
So they let me know.
They let me know it
was "Neandertal."
So--
>>NOORY: That's what
Cremo says all the time.
>>BRADEN: I think most of
our listeners know that
the textbooks say that
Neanderthal is our ancestor
that we've-- if you
look at the family tree.
1987, he found the body
of this baby girl, George.
It was preserved so well.
And they said it almost
wasn't mummified.
It wasn't frozen.
It wasn't fossilized.
The term they used
was preserved.
The hair was preserved.
The fingernails were preserved.
The skin was preserved so
well that for the first time,
we had really good DNA--
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>BRADEN: --that we
could compare our
supposedly our ancestor
to modern humans
to see where we really
fit in this family tree.
It was 1987.
The results were not
published until the year 2000.
The very prestigious
journal "Nature,"
March, 2000, volume 490, was an
amazing expose of the forensics
data that came.
And they went to some of the
very high profile forensics
labs that do the high
profile crime cases.
>>NOORY: The best of the best.
>>BRADEN: And one of them
was in the Netherlands,
I believe is where it was.
And three independent
labs look at the DNA.
And the bottom line,
the last sentence
of the last paragraph of--
>>NOORY: Each report.
>>BRADEN: --of the report,
I'll just cut to the chase.
It said there's not enough
similarity between our DNA
today and the Neanderthal
DNA to suggest that we
evolved from the Neanderthals.
And beyond that--
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
>>BRADEN: They're
actually showing now
that not only do we
not descend from them,
that we shared the
Earth with them.
We had Neanderthal boyfriends
and girlfriends, apparently,
during that time.
So if we were sharing
the Earth with them,
we could not have
evolved from them.
So now that changes the whole
branch of the family tree.
We're not hearing much.
>>NOORY: How intelligent was
that species, the Neanderthals?
>>BRADEN: We believe they
were very intelligent.
Evidence of conscious burial, of
an afterlife, the consciousness
of an afterlife, and the
things that they believed
would be needed.
>>NOORY: Could we
call them the humans
of the time on this planet?
>>BRADEN: I--
personally, I would not.
Because there is
something about us.
And it all comes
down to the DNA.
And this is where
the DNA is really
beginning to show the difference
is human chromosome number 2
is really where the action is.
>>NOORY: That's the difference.
>>BRADEN: It's the largest
chromosome in our genome.
And it is-- the geneticists
themselves say it did not
form by natural processes.
It could not have.
It's what's called a
telomere to telomere fusion.
So the ends of two different
types of DNA were fused
together in a way that they
say cannot happen under natural
processes.
And this is peer review.
>>NOORY: Now, when
you say it doesn't
happen under natural processes,
what does that then give us?
>>BRADEN: That's where--
>>NOORY: What is
the alternative?
>>BRADEN: That's
where they stop.
They said, we have to
stop, the scientists.
We must stop here.
Because to go farther than
that would be speculating.
This is what the
geneticists are saying
in peer reviewed-- there's
a whole conference,
an entire conference on
human chromosome number 2
that was in Europe.
>>NOORY: If it's not
natural, then it's designed.
That's--
>>BRADEN: They can't say that.
They can't say that because
they don't have the proof.
And one of the
reasons I believe,
George, and this is me as
an independent scientist.
We have compartmentalized
our world
to the point where it's
very difficult for us
to make the connections that
really connect the dots, put
the pieces together.
We've compartmentalized
science as a perfect example.
We say we have geology,
biology, chemistry, physics.
That's what we call these
different facets of nature
so that we're comfortable
studying them.
But if you look
at nature, nature
does not make that
compartmentalization.
And our ancestors didn't.
They didn't separate science
from art, from everyday life,
from the spiritual realms.
And because they
did not, they were
able to cross boundaries
that we've created
in helping to develop answers.
They weren't scientific
answers, but they
were accurate answers
in terms of how we work
and how the universe works.
For example, the
most recent images
from NASA using some
very high resolution
filters of what
the universe looks
like through the Shandra--
>>NOORY: Yeah, it's amazing.
>>BRADEN: Shandra
Space Telescope
is what it's called
where we think
there's empty space
between stars and galaxies.
>>NOORY: There's
galaxies everywhere.
>>BRADEN: Well, you use the.
Filters and they're all
connected through stuff.
I mean, it looks like a
huge cobweb, a spider web.
And that is exactly the language
that our ancestors used.
They always talked about
the web of creation.
The Hopi in the desert
southwest, spider grandmother
emerged into this world and
wove her web of creation.
The great god Indra in the Hindu
traditions created the web.
>>NOORY: But how
would they know?
How would they know?
>>BRADEN: Well,
that's the thing.
The Dogon knew of the Sirius
B that is invisible to us.
And they preserved
their knowledge
of the existence of the star
Sirius B in a dance where they
dance, literally
dance, the orbits
and the paths of
Sirius A and Sirius B
together, the twin suns.
We didn't know until
the 20th century.
>>NOORY: And they claim that
their ancestors came down
from above and
told them about it.
>>BRADEN: Precisely.
So these are some
of the principles
that we're talking about.
We've got this
lens of perception
that we have been steeped in.
The way we think of ourselves,
the story of separation,
and now the
scientific discoveries
are giving us reasons to
think very, very differently.
So the biology of
Darwin is telling
us very, very clearly
the new science,
that nature is based upon
this model of cooperation
and mutual aid.
And where I find
this so fasting,
George, is that the archaeology
supports the biology.
So the discoveries--
>>NOORY: They go together.
>>BRADEN: --that are being
made of the archaeological
discoveries of civilizations
throughout the world are now
supporting the ideas of
Darwin's-- post-Darwin
cooperation.
For example, we're
now looking at
advanced technological
civilizations that
go back in the last ice age.
Personally documented Caral
in northern Peru, for example.
We're told civilization
began 5,000 years ago.
That's when this one ended.
It ended when we're told
the advanced technological
civilizations began.
And there were no walls--
no walls to protect
the homes in the cities.
This is a huge site.
It's 150 acre site,
five pyramids, three
massive circular complexes.
>>NOORY: Thriving city.
>>BRADEN: No evidence of
any weapons, no evidence
of any large scale war.
When we go back into all
of the other civilizations
prior to 5,000 years,
we see the same story.
Gobekli Tepe.
>>NOORY: In Turkey.
>>BRADEN: --in Turkey.
It's very near
the Syrian border.
It's a tough place to get to
right now because of the war.
Fascinating-- it is
rewriting the history books.
>>NOORY: 10,000 years ago.
>>BRADEN: It now is being
dated-- they have not excavated
to the bottom, George.
And it is now being dated at
12,000 years before present.
But they feel it's actually
11 three to 11 five is what
they're--
>>NOORY: They're pretty
comfortable with that?
>>BRADEN: For the
level that they are,
they say now when they get
down to the lower levels,
they're going to be
looking at 13,000 years.
What's happening is the
Gulf of Khambhat in India,
9,500 years old.
Chateau Jiahu, 9,000
years before present.
The Great Sphinx--
7,000 to 9,000 years.
If it were one site,
it would be an anomaly.
What's happening
is the anomalies
are beginning to
tell a new story.
>>NOORY: All over the place.
>>BRADEN: The story
is that the history
that we have studied
from Sumeria forward--
so we've got Egypt, Greece,
Rome, the Inca, the Maya, all
of that.
Fascinating-- that
is only the story
of the most recent cycle of
human history, a 5,000 year
cycle.
And when you look at
the cycle prior to that,
all of these other sites fall
within that 5,000 year cycle.
And it appears that there's
another one before that pushing
it back into the last ice age.
The interesting thing to me is
that prior to our 5,000 year
cycle, there's no evidence
of war-- large scale war.
No evidence of weapons--
you don't find the weapons.
You don't find the mass
graves, the mutilated bodies.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BRADEN: The first evidence--
>>NOORY: Should we find that?
>>BRADEN: The first
evidence of large scale war
is 5,000 years ago, Sumeria--
the beginning of our cycle.
Now, this is one of
those places, George,
where if you look
only at the evidence,
I think you'll never
understand the story.
But when we begin to cross the
traditional boundaries that
separated the sciences--
so when we listen
to the indigenous
elders, for example,
they told us very
clearly that our cycles
are based in cycles of climate.
And when the climate
changed 5,000 years
ago very similar to
what we're seeing now--
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>BRADEN: --that is when the
first large scale war occurred.
Prior to that time,
we lived in what
was called a golden age or
an age-- or a cycle of peace.
And the evidence supports that.
Now, either we have not found
the weapons and they do exist,
or those weapons never existed.
And for all the sites
in the different parts
of the world-- from Asia
yo Africa, South America,
and North America--
I would think
we would've found it
somewhere if it existed.
So there is a growing consensus
that large scale war as we know
it today began 5,000 years ago.
The indigenous
story matches that.
And it says, we come from a
cycle, a golden age of peace.
In 2012, that was the
big deal about 2012,
it was the close of a 5,000
year cycle of darkness and war.
We now are in the beginning
of a new 5,000 year cycle.
And the question is--
>>NOORY: Of darkness and war.
>>BRADEN: Well, the question
is, will we perpetuate
what we have come from?
And there's a little buffer
in between each cycle.
It's a 36 year buffer.
So the 2012 cycle
actually ended the 1980.
And it goes until 2016.
2016 is the end of the no time
buffer between the cycles.
For a 5,000 year cycle,
there's 36 year window of time,
of transition-- so
from 1980 to 2016.
And it's interesting.
When we look at what's
happening in the world today,
the Kondratiev cycles, if-- I
don't know if our listeners are
familiar with the theories
around the cycle theory--
it began as economic
theory, but it
applies to so many other
facets of our lives--
tell us that we are now in a war
cycle that actually winds down
in the year 2020.
So it doesn't mean
we must have war.
It means there's
a vulnerability--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BRADEN: --for--
>>NOORY: We're in that window.
>>BRADEN: We're in that window.
And I would think that
would be the opportunity
to take extra precautions,
extra care when we're
making our negotiations to be
very clear in our communication
and to take that extra step
to see if we can broker
the deal, whatever that is, just
because of the vulnerability.
And again, it doesn't
mean that the cycle
predicts what will happen.
It says there's a vulnerability.
And this is all based on what
we see in the past cycles.
5,000 years ago, apparently, we
were in a very similar cycle.
And the geologists now
are confirming this.
There was a climate change
cycle that was missed.
Because it's so recent, they
thought the climate change--
>>NOORY: How could they miss it?
>>BRADEN: Because they
thought it only happens
on these huge scales of time.
So the researchers, they took
data from seafloor sediments,
from Antarctica, from
the ice core sediments.
They went to the Andes and to
Southern Peru, ice sediments.
They took tree ring data
from northern Europe.
They put all this together
and they said, my god.
5,000 ago?
Look at this.
It says-- and it's very,
very similar to what we have.
And there was another
one 5,000 before that.
>>NOORY: Isn't it interesting?
We talk about the flood of Noah.
In all these things,
they all seem
to correlate with each
other, don't they?
>>BRADEN: They do when
we are willing to cross
the traditional boundaries
that have separated
the sciences in the past.
So my feeling is that we
are now facing these--
it's not just one big crisis.
I mean, we're looking
this convergence of--
>>NOORY: Are we at a
critical juncture here?
>>BRADEN: I think we are.
We are resilient as a species.
And we know how to adapt.
But what's different
about today, George,
we're really good at dealing
with one big problem at a time.
So, and like, the ice age came.
And I think everybody was pretty
much focused on the ice age.
1929, the Great Depression.
We focused on that.
We knew how to--
>>NOORY: And we attacked it.
>>BRADEN: World War
I, World War II--
we knew how to deal
with those things.
What's happening, we've never
as a civilization, as a global,
connected civilization, been
faced with so many unique
crises of such magnitude--
failing economies that now--
>>NOORY: All at the same time.
>>BRADEN: Climate
change, what's happening
to social change
that's happening
in the Middle East, energy,
what's happening, the way we're
doing with energy, disease, the
kinds of diseases we've never
seen on a global scale before.
So I think this is
the invitation for us
to rethink the story of us and
our relationship to the world.
And the science gives
us a good reason
to do that if we're willing
to honor the science, if we're
willing to honor the data,
and allow the data to tell us
the story rather
than trying to force
the data into a
pre-conceived story
the we know is no longer true.
>>NOORY: Gregg, I want
people to track you.
How do they find you?
What's your website?
>>BRADEN: Website--
www.greggbraden.com.
G-R-E-G-G-- that means
it's not a Gregory.
G-R-E-G-G B-R-A-D-E-N .com.
>>NOORY: I could go on
forever with you on this.
>>BRADEN: Well, and
I could as well.
And I think it's
important, George.
Because when the
facts are clear,
our choices become obvious.
That's the key-- when
the facts are clear,
we don't need to
be told what to do.
The choices become obvious.
And science has now
given us those facts.
>>NOORY: Let's continue
talking about this.
Thank you.
Gregg Braden--
>>BRADEN: Thank you so much.
>>NOORY: --on "Beyond Belief."
You know, those six
questions that Gregg
had asked and mentioned
earlier in the program.
Will we ever get
the answers to them?
I don't know.
But if we ever do,
then we'll fully
understand why we're here.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."